Which science fiction
story most resembles the future you want
to build with technology?
>> Keep walking.
>> So, in the movie her the main character
has earbuds, has a phone in their shirt
pocket with a camera that's looking at
the world. Um, they can speak to their
AI assistant that's hyperpersonalized to
them.
>> I figured you were hungry.
>> Oh, thanks.
>> So, something like that is uh fully
doable in the next couple of years. I
feel like I can say anything to you.
>> That's nice.
>> Today, dear listener, on bold names,
Carl Pay, CEO of nothing. It's not a non
thing. It's an actual startup worth more
than a billion dollars taking on Apple
and Samsung on their own turf.
>> Yeah, that's right, Mims. He thinks that
these big tech companies are boring,
that they have lost the plot when it
comes to smartphones. We're also going
to get into whether or not the phone
really is the do everything gadget of
the future and what might come after.
All that and more on today's episode
with Carl Bay.
I think of you and your company as kind
of like the cool kids of mobile devices
right now. You have the youngest
demographic in terms of the people who
buy your devices. That means of course
you're less well known to maybe older
generations. You know, when people have
never heard of you or what you do, what
do you tell them nothing is?
Um, I like to say that we're a design
driven consumer tech company. Um, we
build smartphones, earbuds, uh,
headphones now as well. And we're
investing a lot into the software
experience. We started this company
because we were bored with the status
quo. I was a big Apple fan when I was a
kid and you know bought all the early
products the first iPod, first iPhone
and I think those were the entire reason
why I'm currently working in this
industry. Um but over time it just got
more and more iterative and we we wanted
to do something about it. Before
starting we actually studied everybody
else who tried to make a phone company
before and in the last 10 years nobody
has been successful. Um and the way we
saw it was that a lot of people came in
through a software lens. A lot of the
founders, you know, came from software
backgrounds and for a hardware company
is actually especially with smartphones,
the value chain is very long. So to go
from an idea to shipping a product to
selling it all across the world and then
to service the users, there's like so
many steps in the way because you got to
spin like templates at the same time to
make a company like this work. And uh
that's what we what we've accomplished I
think and now it's finally time to uh do
more interesting things.
>> Give us the basics here. So where is
nothing based? Where are you
manufacturing your devices? Um and you
know what's the state of sales?
>> Yeah, we're based in London. Uh we
picked London for our headquarters
because
the thesis what that was that there must
be a lot of creativity in London. It's a
very big international city. We sell our
products in 50 countries worldwide and
this year we're approaching a billion
dollars in sales. Um, but it's just the
beginning.
>> Just the beginning. But let's go back a
few years uh before you began nothing.
You spent some you spent a lot of time
in China, right? You were born in China,
but you grew up in the West. You grew up
in Sweden. uh and you went back to China
as a young man right out of high school
and you started to really get into the
consumer electronic space a decade ago.
Um you told some of our colleagues here
at the Wall Street Journal that your
goal was to disrupt the smartphone
industry. Uh at the at the time you
seemed especially focused on that. You
were living out of a suitcase. Is that
still the case? Are you still solely
focused on disrupting the smartphone
industry?
Um, I think the world of consumer
technology has to evolve and smartphones
will still be a very important part of
it, but it's not going to be the only
thing. I moved to China in 2011 because
I saw the consumer hardware smartphone
um industry booming there and I was
really interested in this uh industry.
So, uh, when your colleague talked to me
earlier, it was when I was a co-founder
of OnePlus, a Chinese smartphone company
that we, uh, built to about 3 billion in
revenue in in seven years. I guess we
didn't completely disrupt the industry
because the industry is big and 3
billion is uh, it's not a not a huge
slice of it, but yeah, super grateful to
to have been on that journey.
>> So, since then, the smartphone industry
has evolved. It's consolidated. It
reminds me of the auto industry,
honestly. I mean, you got three
companies that are dominant. You just
two of them control 80% of the market in
the US, right? That's Apple and Samsung.
>> You talk about having to spend 10 plates
just at once just to get this company
going because it's a hardware company. I
mean, this is daunting. Why choose to
try to disrupt an industry where these
entrenched players have such an enormous
moat in terms of just their their huge
supply chains and and the huge demand
for their products.
>> Um it's the only thing I know. My entire
career has been in this industry and
>> you didn't know better.
>> I didn't know better. Yeah. Um
>> I because even Elon Musk
>> spoken like a true founder.
>> Even Elon Musk who is like let's go to
Mars. We can do that. No problem. He's
like he wants he'd rather die than do
his own smartphone, right? I mean, he's
talked about how hard it is. I mean, he
said that
>> and you're like, let's do it.
>> I gotta I gotta dig up that interview.
Like I I never heard him say that, but
it it is pretty hard. But at the same
time, it's a huge industry. Like a
billion plus phones are sold every year.
And we thought that if we could just get
a slice of this market to start with,
then it'll be a substantial business.
And to add to that, the smartphone is
such an important device in our lives.
We use it for multiple hours every day.
And we thought that if we're able to
scale a business like this, eventually
there will be an opportunity to build
something cool in terms of software and
services as well. Um, but we weren't
really sure when we started what that
would be. We just were super focused on
getting those 10 plates uh to be able to
spin and scale up the business. But um
now with AI accelerating at the the pace
we're currently seeing, we do see a lot
of opportunities on the software stack
as well.
>> Before we get to AI, I just really
curious what the doubters said to you
along this journey when you're tackling
such a hard problem.
>> So much um perhaps in the earlier years,
the supply chain was even more skeptical
of us than investors.
And you know, we approached a a big
manufacturer and they said, "Hey, we
worked with a bunch of startups in the
last 10 years." Uh, everybody failed.
We're not going to work with startups
anymore. From investors perspective, we
heard a lot of things like, "Hey, it's
cool that you can build a phone, but can
you really scale it? Uh, it's cool that
you scaled it in this market. Can you
scale it in this other market?"
>> You know, one of the things you you kind
of paint this really challenging
situation. It's very hard to get going.
Um, as Mims just kind of talked about,
there are some dominant players here,
right? Apple especially here in the US,
uh, Samsung out there as well. And I'm
just curious, what do you think your
your edge is there? Why would I buy a
nothing phone when the iPhone works just
fine?
>> Yeah, I think the beauty about being in
a super big industry, a super big
category, is that there's always unique
needs. Um, we're seeing a lot of our
users not wanting to buy the same
products as their parents. They want
something different. They want something
that can express their personality. Um,
and it's been a strategy
uh a conscious strategy that we've taken
from the beginning. We shouldn't be for
everyone, at least not in our earlier
years. We should
really be ourselves and find the people
who who like us. So the first thing we
decided to do was to focus on design. Um
to to develop a very unique design
aesthetic around transparency around the
technicality of a smartphone and
consumer electronics, but also try and
infuse some fun and human warmth into
the products. I mean because you're
hitting on something here. I think one
of the criticisms about smartphones
right now is that they all kind of look
alike, right? And so how do you
differentiate for those who haven't seen
one of these uh phones? Um how do you
describe it?
>> Um well I can show you. Okay. So on the
phone 3 as an example, we put a
secondary display on the back. Uh it's
got a bunch of useful but also not so
useful features. Um, and it's also
>> useful features being like the time or
>> time or having emojis for different
contacts so you know when it's really
important.
>> I find that
>> so like when your mom calls and it's
like I got to pick this one up. It's
like a hard
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> And and not so useful but fun features
include um this spin the bottle
animation. So
>> not a not a feature for when you're with
your mom.
>> No. Um and then we open it up so our
community can also develop stuff for it.
Um, but every product we we built has
something iconic. Um, the first earbuds,
not only were they see-through, but they
also had a dimple on the case
like here. So, you could also play
around with it as a fidget spinner. Um,
I mean, if we're entering a huge and
super mature category, we have to find a
thin slice. The thinner the better of
the market and just wedge ourselves in.
And then once we're in there, we can
start gradually expanding our scope. I
don't think there would have been
another way to break into this industry.
As you say, it's super consolidated. So
there's only a couple of really big
players. And what that means is that the
unit economics for a small company
becomes really difficult. When everybody
else is selling 100 million, 200 million
phones, their negotiating power with the
suppliers to get the cost down is way
stronger than us. I mean, your your
high-end phone at this point costs
something what $800 USD.
>> It starts at $800.
>> Yeah. And but you must be doing
something right because you just raised
a bunch of money, $200 million at a
valuation of, let me get this right,
$1.3 billion. Uh, that's pretty
impressive given the competition we're
talking about. And you're raising that
money. I think betting on AI helps you
differentiate nothing even more. So, you
just launched something called
Essential. What is that exactly?
>> Um, essential OS is more of a vision
because the smartphone OS hasn't really
changed in the last
>> OS being an operating system. If you're
using the iPhone, it's iOS if you're
using
>> uh Android, which is the Google
operating system. Could be on Samsung or
all these other phones as well.
>> Yeah, the the OS hasn't really changed
since um I don't know how long, 20 25
years, even before the iPhone. Today,
the phones are a lot more powerful. The
interfaces are a lot more beautiful.
It's faster. It's more fluid than
before. The cameras are great. But
fundamentally, the interaction hasn't
really changed. And we see a future
where the smartphone or your OS knows it
knows it knows you really well, right?
Because we're all individual people.
We're not the same. So, everybody should
be able to get their version or their
most perfect version of the OS.
>> I mean, just to be clear, you're
building on top of Android. Android's
your operating system. So, um are you
are you thinking about at some point
replacing Android or do you think
there's an opportunity to create some
sort of differentiation on top of
Android?
>> Uh we're building on top of Android. Uh
we we plan to continue to do so uh
because it's a great platform to build
on. Android has an open- source portion
of it as well that we're also
leveraging. And uh the real benefit um
or the real value that Android has is
that it's got a ton of apps. So I think
it's a great place to to start. But on
top of Android, we have our own uh
interface. And over time, we can uh
really differentiate the interface
because if you think about the words OS,
operating system, it's basically the
system that allows you to operate the
device. So irrespective of what's under
the hood, Android for instance, um the
interface layer is what users interact
with on a day-to-day basis. And I think
this is where we're going to see a lot
of change in the coming years. You know,
one is to have a personalized interface
for each and every one of us. But then
secondly, it's also to uh automate more,
right? Because today doing things on the
phone is very manual. We have to have an
idea. Hey, I want to have coffee with
somebody. And then we have to go through
all these different apps. Some kind of a
chat app, some maps, some um some review
site maybe and um calendar app, Uber,
like there's so many steps to get a
simple intention done. Whereas in the
future, I think it's fully technically
uh we're fully technically able to just
create a super seamless experience where
the gap between an intention and an
action becomes way way smaller. And
>> and we've seen this dream before. Uh you
know, Google is certainly working on it
with integrating Gemini deeper into
Android. Um but I'm really curious if
you could get specific about your
particular implementation. Right. This
is basically I can use AI to vibe code
my own little mini apps that sit on the
phone alongside everything else. Is that
right? Yeah, that was the first step. Um
we call it essential apps. So I agree
everybody's vision is similar. However,
every company has their own um strategy
or own uh road map to get there. So for
us, we recently announced essential
apps. Basically what it allows you to do
is if you have an idea for an app uh you
just type it in using natural language.
If it doesn't get it right the first
time, you can keep prompting it until
you have something you like and then you
can deploy it onto your phone. Actually,
>> so what's a basic concrete example of an
app that somebody might vibe code with
just a prompt?
>> So, for instance, I have to uh have
meetings across a lot of different
countries and time zones. So, a simple
uh selector to help me find time zone
matches with people instead of having to
go into the browser and uh and using one
of those uh websites. Let's say that uh
I want to vibe code an app for Tim
Haggin's super fans and I
>> audience of that.
>> Yeah, it's well outside of Tim's mom,
but um and I just say to it, hey, like
uh you know, I I I want to see
everything that he posts on every social
channel and uh every time he posts a new
article on WSJ,
>> you can't quite do that yet, right?
Because you don't have all the
connectors to all the the APIs, all the
kind of little intermediary points on
the internet, right?
Um, it can also scrape things. So, I'
I've tried um I've tried um a similar
idea, but it's I just promise. Yeah. A
Tim Higgins fan page. Great.
>> Uh not for you, but to scrape somebody's
X account, and that works actually.
>> So, scrape just means it looks at the
web page, it takes the relevant bits of
content, and then it delivers it to this
app.
>> Yeah. And then it updates it at a at a
certain frequency. So when we're
thinking further out, in other words,
you are going to give people a custom
way to consume the internet to interact
with all of our digital services.
Theoretically, if you can make all this
connection
>> and that's the first step, right? And um
today if you generate something and you
upload it to the platform and I kind of
like it, but I want to customize it. Uh
we have this idea where you can remix
somebody else's work. So, I like your uh
uh Tim fan widget or fan app, but I
wanted to make it about somebody else. I
can just change it to be super
personalized to me.
>> Mhm.
>> And
>> you're more of a Mims fan. I guess
>> we're a Mims fan app. Um but today, it's
still manual, the placement, right? I
have to go and browse what kind of stuff
I like and manually place it into my
phone. But as we get um the usage to go
up, we can then start predicting. Hey,
you know, based on this thing we know
about you, you might want these couple
of apps or widgets to show up on your
phone. Do you want them or not? I mean,
one of the interesting things about AI,
the potential of AI is there is a belief
that um it will help create or help
empower uh more super apps. um those
kind of apps where your digital life
lives in them and the the hardware
becomes less important. So you can you
can change among the phones that have
the newest and coolest features. Are you
thinking like that or is that a moment a
possibility here?
>> Um actually that's interesting because I
thought about it in the opposite way. So
over time hardware becomes more
important and my reasoning is that if
software development costs are going to
drop over time then distributing
software will become more and more
difficult. So if we think about the
early days of the app store, I still
remember having a beer drinking app.
>> Yeah.
>> And labyrinth app
>> and um any app will get a ton of users
back then because there were more users
and apps. Today it's already very
different. Today um if you have an app,
you have to pay the platforms to market
the app. So when people search for apps,
it's it shows up on the top. Uh it's
actually very expensive to acquire
users. And this user acquisition cost is
only going to increase over time because
there's more and more people who can
make apps. So the competition is going
to become more and more fierce. And
therefore hardware at scale becomes a
great way to pre-bundle some of these
apps or or the software. So therefore I
believe that hardware is only going to
become more and more important. So I'm
glad you mentioned hardware because
there is a lot happening in hardware. I
think under the surface you have meta
and everyone working on smart glasses
maybe you're going to have folding
devices from Apple you have other form
factors right Joanie IV working with
open AI there's a lot of fauxment just
under the surface so I'm really curious
in a world where the devices that you
make now like phones could be superseded
uh at least in terms of the hype cycle
by these other types of hardware soon.
Like what do you make of those
developments?
>> Um I'm very excited about all these new
developments because when we started 5
years ago, the industry was kind of
sleepy. Uh not much happening and now we
see all these uh great teams working on
new ideas. Um and it's al also a great
opportunity for us to put our hat into
the ring and also co-invent the future
together with our with our ecosystem.
were well positioned to also help define
you know what's gonna what's gonna be
the next computing uh products in the
future and recently I spent a lot of
time to think about how the world will
look different in 10 years from now and
what products people will use. Um my
thesis is that the smartphone will still
be very important 10 years from now. But
I also believe that in the next 10 years
there will be another class of devices
that will have the same level of scale.
And the reason is simply that the
smartphone is not always going to be
available for us. Sometimes we're we
have the phone in our pocket uh when
we're having dinner or when we're
walking on the street. We don't want to
hold our phones. And over time, over the
next few years, consumers will start to
realize that the more information they
can feed into their whatever we call it,
operating system or AI or assistant, the
better results, the more help they're
going to get back. And therefore, it
will give birth to other devices that
can help us collect context when the
phone is not available. But there's a
lot of people who have this idea that,
you know, you're going to wear a
pendant, a pin, it could be any form
factor that's going to be, you know, as
you just put it, gathering context for
you whether or not you have the phone.
My take is that it's too early to tell.
Who knows what the future is going to
be. We don't have a crystal ball here to
to to help us foresee the future. So
therefore we should act fast and not
spend too much money on each uh each
product we try and then iterate quickly
based on feedback. So instead of
spending four or five years to make a
product, let's figure out how to spend
one year and instead of spending
hundreds of millions of dollars on each
product, can we do products with the
tens of millions instead? If we don't
get it right the first time around,
let's be close to our users. Um, let's
put ourselves into the shoes of our
users and talk to them and iterate the
product quickly. So, as you watch Apple,
you you clearly Apple was a big
influence for you. Why has Apple
seemingly struggled or seemingly
stumbled with this moment we are in AI?
Tim Cook says the iPhone will continue
to be the center of digital lives, but I
think investors are worried. So, what's
your take? Why have they stumbled?
Um, I think first of all, we have to
give Tim a lot of credit because he he's
built Apple into a couple trillion
dollars of uh of market cap.
>> Not chump change,
>> right?
>> No, he's done a he's done a great job.
Um, I think once you get to a certain
scale, it's harder and harder to do new
things because the culture um gets more
and more fixed over time. And uh I think
the current Apple culture is more of a
um optimization culture for lack of a
better word. And it's really hard to
jump out of that mindset and and do new
things. And I think that's the same case
for uh all big companies unless the
founder or or a very strong executive,
you know, really drives something. Um,
so we've seen with Apple with their car,
with their vision pro, and now with AI
that, um, you know, it hasn't been
ideal, but at the same time, we have to
remember that they're also very well
positioned for the future because they
have so many users, such a great brand,
and so much uh, context already on all
of their users because they don't just
sell hardware, they have software and
services, they have content. So even if
they're slow and even if they're not the
first mover, I still think they're a
very for formidable uh competitor.
>> Yeah. Just just for the record here,
just for the record here, their their
market cap is uh $3.69 trillion. So
nothing to sneeze at.
>> No.
>> Right. Right. But you said first mover,
which always uh evokes for me the
advantage that the second mover can
have, right? like the second company to
a given market. These big companies,
they often rely on innovative startups
like yours to go test a market and then
they say that seems to have worked
pretty well. Let's use our enormous
scale to go dominate it, right? Like we
were seeing that in some respects with
Google being a fast follower in AI
>> versus Open AI. given their scale. I
mean, what's to keep them from simply
seeing what you're doing and say, "Okay,
we'll just uh copy that and make a
billion of them because that's what
we're good at."
>> Yeah. As we're developing these new form
factors and releasing them, um, we're
looking for PMF. PMF is product market
fit. to whether this product will be
adopted by or loved by consumers.
But once we find PMF, we have to run
really quickly because as you say, other
people are also going to be looking at
the space. And I think we do have a
global presence. We do we're doing
almost a billion in in sales this year.
It's still small compared to the bigger
tech companies. But I think once we find
product market fit, uh we can also go
really hard on go to market and increase
the the sales volume of a product. Why
don't people copy our current stuff?
Because I frankly I think it doesn't
help them because all these companies in
our industry today, they're mass market.
You know, they have to cater to
everybody from young children to
grandparents. And we cater to a very
small group of users. So if they copy
us, they would effectively be limiting
their market share. They might shrink in
size instead of growing.
>> Carl, thank you for joining us. Thanks
for having me.
>> We reached out to Apple, which did not
respond to our request for comment.
[Music]